Bryan: Honestly, for me
without assistive technology,
my life would be very isolated.
I couldn't do my job.
I wouldn't have an active personal life.
I'd be in a dark place
without assistive technology to help me.
[music plays]
Bryan: It's hard to describe in one word,
but it would have a huge impact on me,
and all DeafBlind community members lives.
In our work lives for example,
the ability to zoom on the screen
or to use a screen reader means
we can read our emails.
On a personal level,
I use it for lighting and cooking,
adjusting the lights
so that I can read books.
There are countless ways
that I use technology at home.
Chris: At my previous job,
before I came to Helen Keller,
I was a teacher
and I worked at a school for the deaf.
Without assistive technology,
I would not have been able
to teach very well.
While I possessed the necessary skills
in order to be a good teacher,
and while I had the capability
to be a good teacher,
my vision and hearing loss
prevented me from doing so.
However, assistive technology
allowed me to get through those obstacles.
I also use some simple
low-tech devices as well.
For example, I was able to use tinted
plastic reading sheets.
I could clip the plastic
sheets on top of the paper,
flip it over,
and now I had the option of using blue,
pink, green, or yellow
as an overlay on the white paper.
White paper gives off such a glare,
but with the colored overlays,
I could read it very easily.
I have a lot of those examples
and each of them contributed
to my success as a teacher.
They created an equitable environment
where I was on par with the deaf
and hearing teachers who were teaching
deaf children at the school.
What I'm getting at by telling that story
is that assistive technology
helps us achieve equity and levels
the playing field.
Scott: The large majority of
the things that I want to do
I can do through technology.
And without technology,
there are a lot of things
I cannot do as independently as I want.
Even through social
media, things like Facebook,
apps like Nextdoor.
Nextdoor is an app
that allows you to connect to other people
in your neighborhood.
And I'm able to use that
and I get information about
what's going on in my neighborhood.
So again, it comes back to
now I have equal access to the information,
equal access to communication,
and I'm able to be
the person that I want to be.
I don't have to sacrifice many things
because I can’t have a phone conversation
or I can’t interact with somebody through text.
I feel like I'm actually part
of the world I live in.
And that wasn't the case back in the late
90s and early 2000s
when my hearing started dropping.
And I was already completely blind.
I felt very alone and very left out.
So, technology,
thank you, thank you, thank you.
I now feel like I'm more of a full person again.
Chris: You mentioned Nextdoor,
and I'm laughing a little bit
because I too use Nextdoor.
I'm also the administrator
for one Nextdoor page.
I doubt any of the members
know that I am DeafBlind,
but who cares? We're too busy
sharing information on that page,
so it's just another
example of equitable access.
[music plays]
Chris: What has DeafBlind assistive technology
looked like through the decades
in the fifties, sixties and seventies
and on through today?
Scott, you're laughing.
Do you want to answer that, please?
Scott: There really wasn't a lot of things
available for people who are DeafBlind.
Back in the fifties,
radio was a big thing.
That's how everybody got their news,
turning on the radio.
Well, DeafBlind people didn't have that.
If you can't hear it,
that's pretty worthless.
Same with TV.
If you're completely blind
and completely deaf,
it's just a piece of junk as far as you're
concerned, because you can't see it,
you can't hear it.
So that's kind of where we came from.
Back in the fifties
and even into the sixties,
there was really no reliable
way, even for DeafBlind people,
to access the phone system,
which prior to the internet,
that was a primary means
of communication.
It was a very challenging time,
which is why I say
it's great to be alive now, to
experience all this communication
Bapin: Years ago when I was
first learning braille,
I learned how to type
using a manual typewriter back then,
but I couldn't see
if I made a mistake,
so I couldn't edit the letters.
So I used to type
very carefully and slowly
to make sure I didn't make any mistakes.
If I did inadvertently make a mistake,
I would tear the paper out
and start all over again.
Then one year later, I was 13,
I finally got my first electric device
that was called the Versabraille.
It was similar to what blind people used
when they recorded on cassette tapes.
They could use it
to listen to books on tape,
But I would use the Versabraille
cassette tapes to store information.
For example, I would take notes or
write up a document.
I was really excited that I was able
to read it back and edit any mistakes.
One negative was the weight.
It weighed about 20 pounds
and it was awkward to carry around.
The devices we use now
have become smaller and smaller.
nothing is the 20 pounds of years
ago. Now our devices are
as light as a pound or less
and that includes both my iPhone
and the braille display.
So times have changed.
Scott: I believe it was
in the sixties when teletype
or TTY
was implemented into the phone system.
And what that meant was
they could have an interpreter
send digital beeps
but the random beeps
is what they sound like.
It's actually high-paced Morse Code,
but they can send that through the phone lines,
And so deaf people, they were
able to communicate
back and forth with one another by typing.
And they would have
very long conversations.
I'm sure many of them, for the first time.
I believe it was in the 70s or 80s...
Yeah, probably in
the early to mid 80s
when they finally came out with a device
that also included a small Braille display.
So now for the first time,
DeafBlind people were able to
also access the phone system.
That really opened up a lot of doors.
Chris: In the past, we had to make do
with what was available.
Scott shared a little bit about that,
as well as Bapin and his experiences.
Today we have a host of options
available to us, which is wonderful,
and it's been wonderful to see
the evolution of assistive technology.
[music ends]